~ Types of tables in POWER BI - 

1. fact table : numerical data , foreign keys 

2. dimension table : descriptive data (Text) , use for filtering , primary key is for dimension table and foreign key is for fact table


~ Why we use data model ?

Merging tables creates redundancy and often requires significantly more memory and processing 
power to analyze compared to a relational model with multiple small tables.


~ Two types of schema 

1. STAR schema : A Star schema is the simplest and most common type of data model, characterized by a single fact table surrounded by related dimension tables

2.SNOWFLAKE schema: A snowflake schema is an extension of a star, and includes relationships between dimension tables and related 
sub-dimension tables


~ ACTIVE & INACTIVE RELATIONSHIPS : The Sales Data table contains two date fields (Order Date & Stock Date), but there can only be one active
relationship to the Date key in the Calendar table You can set relationships to active or inactive from either the Edit Relationships dialog box or the Properties (you must deactivate one before activating another)


~ RELATIONSHIP CARDINALITY : 4 types relationship : Cardinality refers to the uniqueness of values in a column

1 to many , many to many , 1 to 1 , many to 1

but only 1 to Many accepted in power bi


~ CONNECTING MULTIPLE FACT TABLES : Also known as Shared Dimension Model - ક્યારેક model માં 2 fact tables હોય છે. - બંને ને Dimension Tables સાથે connect કરાય છે


~ FILTER CONTEXT & FLOW : Filter Context એટલે report માં filter કેવી રીતે apply થાય છે.આ filter table થી બીજી tables સુધી જાય છે.એને Filter Flow કહે છે.


~ BI-DIRECTIONAL FILTERS : Default માં Power BI filter એક direction માં flow કરે છે.Filter Customer થી Sales માં જશે.પણ જો Both direction કરશો તો Customer ↔ Sales Filter બંને side જઈ શકે. 

Updating the cross-filter direction from Single to Both allows filter context to flow in either direction


~ AMBIGUITY : જો model માં ઘણા bi-directional filters હોય તો problem આવે.Table A → Table B , Table A → Table C , Table B → Table C
હવે filter માટે multiple paths બની જાય . Power BI confuse થઈ જાય . એને Ambiguity કહે છે. 

Using multiple two-way filters can cause ambiguity by introducing multiple filter paths between tables


~ HIDING FIELDS : Power BI માં ઘણી વખત columns user ને બતાવવાની જરૂર નથી.
Customer ID , Product ID - આ columns relationship માટે હોય છે.
તો આપણે તેને Hide in Report View કરી દઈએ.

Hide in Report View makes fields inaccessible from the Report tab, but still available in Data and Model views


